fix(tree): Add option to heal unresolvable identifier IDs at doc load time (#27281)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/petite-pillows-wave.md

---
"fluid-framework": minor
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"__section": fix
---

> Add SharedTreeOptionsBeta.healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode to recover documents with corrupted identifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add SharedTreeOptionsBeta.healUnresolvableIdentifiersOnDecode to recover documents with corrupted identifiers
```

> Add `SharedTreeOptionsBeta.healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode` to recover documents with corrupted identifier IDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Add SharedTreeOptionsBeta.healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode to recover documents with corrupted identifiers
```

https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/.changeset/README.md#formatting and identifier IDs is redundant.

> A SharedTree bug resulted in some corrupted documents due to their attach summary persisting identifier-field values in an incorrect format.

Reviewer: This corruption can still happen if users continue to use older versions of the code, and even after this until we land a fix, so I think this is better:

```suggestion
A SharedTree bug can result in corrupted documents due to their attach summary compressing identifier-field values in way that cannot be uncompressed.
```

> This bug manifested in an error with message "Unknown op space ID.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bug manifested as remote clients processing the op throwing an error with the message "Unknown op space ID.".
This leaves the tree unable to be loaded or summarized by current and future clients without this workaround.
```

> This change adds an option (`healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode`) to `configuredSharedTreeBetaLegacy` which will allow documents affected by this bug to load again when enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change adds an option (`healUnresolvableIdentifiersOnDecode`) to `configuredSharedTreeBetaLegacy` which will allow documents affected by this bug to load again when enabled.
```

Enabling this option carries some risk, see documentation on the interface itself for more details.

> ### Who is affected

Reviewer: https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/.changeset/README.md#formatting

```suggestion
#### Who is affected
```

> Only applications whose SharedTree schema uses `identifier` fields, where the SharedTree was attached to a container that was already attached, are at risk.

Reviewer: I've tweaked this to exclude more cases, and narrow by the more likely to eliminate use cases option first.

```suggestion
Only SharedTrees attached to a container that was already attached can be impacted.
Furthermore, this bug only occurs when the attached tree contains [`identifier`](https://fluidframework.com/docs/api/tree/schemafactory-class#identifier-property) fields which contain implicitly generated default values.
```

> Documents that meet those conditions and now fail to load can be recovered by setting `healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode: true`.

Reviewer: I think "now" here is confusing (they failed to load before this change):
```suggestion
Documents that meet those conditions and thus fail to load can now be recovered by setting `healUnresolvableIdsOnDecode: true`.
```
